# Deep-Semi-Supervised-GPS-Transport-Mode

This is the code repository for the paper entitled: "Semi-Supervised Deep Learning Approach for Transportation Mode Identification UsingGPS Trajectory Data", submitted to IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering. The paper is under its second round of review. The abstract is as follows: 
"Identification of travelers’ transportation modes is a fundamental step for various problems that arise in the domain of transportation such as travel demand analysis, transport planning, and traffic management. In this paper, we aim to identify users’ transportation modes purely based on their GPS trajectories. A majority of studies have proposed mode inference models based on hand-crafted features, which might be vulnerable to traffic and environmental conditions. Furthermore, the classification task in almost
all models have been performed in a supervised fashion while a large amount of unlabeled GPS trajectories has remained unused. Accordingly, in this paper, we propose a deep \textbf{SE}mi-Supervised \textbf{C}onvolutional \textbf{A}utoencoder (\textbf{SECA}) architecture that can not only automatically extract relevant features from GPS tracks but also exploit useful information in unlabeled data. The SECA integrates a convolutional-deconvolutional autoencoder and a convolutional neural network into a unified framework to concurrently perform supervised and unsupervised learning. The two components are simultaneously trained using both labeled and unlabeled GPS trajectories, which have already been converted into an efficient representation for the convolutional operation. An optimum schedule for varying the balancing parameters between reconstruction and classification errors are also implemented. The performance of the proposed SECA model, the method for converting a raw trajectory into a new representation, the hyperparameter schedule, and the model configuration are evaluated by comparing to several baselines and alternatives for various amounts of labeled and unlabeled data. Our experimental results demonstrate the superiority of the proposed model over the state-of-the-art semi-supervised and supervised methods with respect to metrics such as accuracy and F-measure. 

The GeoLife dataset uses in this project is available at: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=52367&from=https%3A%2F%2Fresearch.microsoft.com%2Fen-us%2Fdownloads%2Fb16d359d-d164-469e-9fd4-daa38f2b2e13%2F
